# MSBA-Capstone

This project dives into the intricacies of Montana’s big game hunting permit system. There is a unique connection between the permit system and its important relationship with conservation and the outdoor industry. Big game hunting is a significant part of many economies, generating over $45 billion in revenue for the U.S. in 2022, while Montana contributed over $300 million. With that said, this important industry has a lottery system that plays an important role in the economy and wildlife.
The analysis of Montana’s big game hunting permit lottery system dives into the processes behind the lottery and evaluates other methods to produce the number that hunters are curious about: the percentage likelihood of drawing a limited entry hunting permit. This paper looks to improve upon current methods with a newfound approach that incorporates untouched relationships in the lottery system.
Many forecasting models are evaluated, but a single model is selected through the evaluation of model percent error and ability to account for the processes in the permit system. A migration factor simulation model is selected to forecast the number of applicants for the following year. Despite the selection of the best model, this paper highlights the challenges in predicting big game hunters behavior and the variability that can be seen in the number of applicants for a limited entry permit from year to year. However, the proposed forecasting model that simulates the number of applications through thousands of applicant simulations, and includes the migration factor, addresses some of the limitations in current permit drawing calculations. In conclusion, this paper highlights the importance of these big game hunting permit lottery systems from an economic and conservation perspective and provides newfound insight into these valuable lottery systems.
